# DISCLAIMER
There is NO official developer support for SmartStart systems and I cannot personally guarantee that using this application will not cause problems with your SmartStart servicer. Use with caution, as I take no responsibility for voided service or any issues caused with your vehicle.

### Overview
PySmartStart is a simple Python3 application that allows you to interface directly with the SmartStart API using your SmartStart login credentials. Use the CLI code provided to quickly play around with what PySmartStart has to offer, and if you'd like to integrate this in some other application, feel free to play around and build something!

### What can it do?
- Connect to the SmartStart API
- Retrieve a list of your connected vehicles
- Provide a list of commands you can send to your vehicle
- Geolocation MAY work if you have that option in your SmartStart account
- Send commands to your vehicle (remote start, arm, disarm, panic, trunk, etc)

### Usage
Import PySmartStart into your Python3 project using:
```python
import pysmartstart
```

Or you can play around with the CLI application using:
```shell
python cli.py -u [YOUR_USERNAME] -p [YOUR_PASSWORD]
```

Now, let's get started:
The PySmartStart API constructor takes these arguments:
```python
### PySmartStart API Constructor ###
def __init__(self, username, password, verbose = False):
    ...
'''
Username:
  - The username or email address you use to login to your SmartStart account

Password:
  - The password you use to login to your SmartStart account

Verbose:
  - If you'd like to see some extra information about what's going on in the background
'''
```

We'll run through the CLI app, which should provide a good picture of how the application works:
```shell
python cli.py -u [YOUR_USERNAME] -p [YOUR_PASSWORD]
```

This will print the response:
```
PySmartStart CLI

Verbose mode? [y/n]
y
```
We'll select verbose mode to get some more detailed information


```
Session ID: [SESSION_ID generated by SmartStart API]
```
PySmartStart then issues a GET request to the SmartStart API using the credentials provided earlier and returns a JSON response. All we need from this response (you can configure this to glean any kind of data you'd like, but I've kept it simple) is the SessionId value.


```
Added new vehicle: 2016 Subaru Outback
    Added new command to 2016 Subaru Outback: Remote Start
    Added new command to 2016 Subaru Outback: Arm
    Added new command to 2016 Subaru Outback: Disarm
    Added new command to 2016 Subaru Outback: Trunk
    Added new command to 2016 Subaru Outback: Panic
```
After retrieving the session id, PySmartStart issues another GET request to the SmartStart API, this time returning a JSON response with all connected vehicles, and all commands associated with those vehicles.
PySmartStart then saves these vehicles and their commands.


```
Connection: OK
Press enter to continue, or 'q' to exit
```
Here we enter a loop in which you can continually select a vehicle and command to send to it.


```
Select desired vehicle number from the list:
[0] - 2016 Subaru Outback
0

Select desired command number from the list:
[0] - Remote Start
[1] - Arm
[2] - Disarm
[3] - Trunk
[4] - Panic
1
```
Once we've selected our vehicle and command, we'll be asked to confirm the send command


```
Press any key to send the command

SENDING...

OK: 0

Command Summary
    Command Type: device.sendcommand
    Status Code: 0
    Error Message:

Command Results
    TotalDistanceDriven: N/A
    CommandSequenceNumber: 1155
    FastestSpeed: 0.00 mph
    Action: arm
    Heading: -1
    Speed: -1 mph
    OdometerEstimate: N/A

Press enter to select another command, or 'q' to go back
q

Connection: OK
Press enter to continue, or 'q' to exit
q
$  
```

Here we receive some details about the response from sending the command. If the status code is 0 and there is no error message, the command was sent successfully. Either press enter to send another command or 'q' to go back to the vehicle selection menu.

### Session Timeout
If, after a while, you do not send any new commands to the SmartStart API, your session will time out. In the case of a timeout just run ```getSessionID()``` on the ```PySmartStart.API()``` object.

### Contact
Thanks for checking out PySmartStart! If you need to get in touch, or have any questions/comments/concerns, feel free to email me.
roberto.despoiu@gmail.com
